And we have started. So with that,
let me say welcome to everyone to today's
lunch and learn.
And the picture that you can see is
actually where we're at since Monday on
the South African Azure User Group where
we have grown from 2009 to.
Actually that that picture is wrong.
It's I pasted the wrong one. Anyway,
there's more and I'll fix that for
tomorrow.
But we are growing every day and this
week in leaps and bounds and this is a
lunch and learn session for the South
African Azure User Group.
We are in week 44 of 2025 and if you
don't know what that means,
it means that there are less than 10
shopping weeks left for Christmas.
You are here because you are finding the
session on meetup.
com on the Azure User Group South Africa
and today we are doing.
The third of this week,
which is Entra Suite, The Good, the Bad,
and the Ugly, presented by Shaun Hardneck.
If you are with us tomorrow,
you'll see that we're doing Azure
Networking,
choosing the right connectivity
architecture for your cloud with Warren
Detoy.
If you missed today's session or if
there's something that you want to go
back to,
have no fear because the session is
recorded and it is available for free
like beer and fresh air on the following
GitHub and I will communicate this to
everyone via mail after this session.
We do have a code of conduct and it's.
That we talk about the code of conduct as
a user group that is subordinated to the
global set of Azure user groups.
The code of conduct says that we accept
everyone and we will not tolerate any
form of discrimination of any sort.
And if any of that is reported to us,
we will evict you from the group.
With that, with no discrimination,
we talk about Shaun,
and Shaun has a lot of history in the
industry.
I've known Shaun in several guises,
and in his current role as a cloud
architect,
he actually is a little bit of a
generalist in the M365 space.
So with that,
there's not a lot of things he hasn't
done,
but he does spend a lot of time in the
M365 and intra space,
which is why he is doing today's session.
And today's session, as I mentioned,
is intra suite, the good.
The bad and the ugly. And with that,
I'm going to hand over to you, Shaun.
First things first,
I I like the animation.
That was brilliant.
You are annoyingly good looking in a suit.
That's all I'll say.
I've picked up weights since then.
We all have.
I have a suit I don't fit to anymore.
And thanks for the introduction, Nick.
So I'm gonna dive in. I'm not gonna.
Around too much on myself,
but I from time to time I do blog on blog
is called thatlazyadmin.
com like Nick mentioned,
bit of a generalist and I share a bit of
everything that is Microsoft cloud
related or issues that I pick up or
challenges that we face from time to time.
Good. Let me minimize Skype. All right.
So the presentation for today or topic
for today, enter the good, the bad,
the ugly. It's not a sales pitch.
So we will dive in some of the real world
scenarios or things that.
I've seen from time to time things that
customers have picked up from time to
time and we will just have a chat about
it. And like the sessions suggest,
it's a lunchtime learn session.
So if you have any questions,
please feel free to ask.
Mhm.
So the first slide that we've got why
identity matches.
2.
And one of them is traditionally identity
has changed quite a lot.
So we used to rely on our firewall,
our network parameters to control
everything.
But because in nowadays traditional
network parameters have gone,
people are working from a.
From coffee shops,
they're working from some hotels and that
makes it difficult for the perimeter or
the traditional perimeters to kick in.
We are now flooded with SAS applications.
People have AWS, they've got Azure and.
Incorporating our traditional approach
for perimeter security has become a bit
of a challenge.
So that's why we start looking at or
hence Microsoft started looking at Intra
ID.
How can we secure our identity or how
does identity become the center of our
zero trust as we.
As we call it,
so Microsoft Entra ID sits at the center
of the model,
controlling anything from conditional
access,
enforcing MFA and monitoring our sign
insurance for our users across the board.
So what is Intra Suite?
So Intra Suite as it as the name suggests,
Microsoft has moved away or has enhanced
Azure Active Directory as Nick gave us a
nice introduction of the name Intra where
it comes from.
So Microsoft has continuously evolved
Microsoft Entra into a suite of products
as what we know it as today.
So it started off with Azure Active
Directory,
now evolved into Microsoft Entra.
And if we think of it,
think of Microsoft's end to end identity
ecosystem covering anything from users,
devices to workload management and
controlling permissions for other third
party products as well.
Hello.
It also brings in identity governance.
So identity governance brings us user
OK, why don't you meet?
automation, lever, joiner, mover.
We think of users moving from different
departments.
Users HR creates a new user in a payroll
system or HR system that filters.
Through Entra ID creates the user objects,
et cetera.
Entra Identity Governance ID governance
allows us now to have all of that control
within Entra suite,
so we don't have to have all these a lot
of third party products orchestrating and
creating workflows and automation.
Some of those functionalities now we can
get directly from intra ID identity
governance.
Then one of the big products and I think
there isn't enough talk about it,
which is permission management which
extends the principle into cloud applying
least privilege across Azure,
AWS and GCP cloud.
So instead of having split identities
across these different clouds,
now we can have permission management
where we can control those sets of
permissions across the different cloud
providers.
So we have enterer ID as our source of
truth for our identity and we leverage
that to sign into.
AWS and GCP so we can still maintain
control over that.
And then we also have what is called
verified and workload ID.
Workload ID ensures that not only people,
but apps and services themselves can
become trusted identities as well.
Although the suites form the backbone
altogether,
this is the suite forms the backbone of
zero trust strategy.
How we implement the products just helps
us to make sure that our it enhance the
way that we implement and control and
govern that zero trust environment.
So now let's look at the first part,
the good of entra ID,
and that is the unified governance.
So I was telling Nick earlier it is.
Such an amazing product that Microsoft
has created. So with lifecycle workflows,
as I've mentioned earlier,
you've got users starting in an
organization.
No more do we have to wait for it to
create a user account or.
Enable that user object when the user
joins the environment.
Now with workflows we can have that user
on the day the user starts send a
notification.
These are your login credentials.
Send the information to the hiring
manager or the reporting manager.
This is the new user's information.
So workflows have become an amazing piece
of technology in Entra where we can
automate a lot of the tedious tasks that
used to sit with helpdesk.
And then additionally we look at access
packages.
How do we bundle easy access management
across?
The M365, the Azure space,
we sit in large organizations where we've
got hundreds or even thousands of
employees,
but they all need access to either some
form of applications.
Department has got a structure where they
need to access SAP.
SAP access or they need HR access or they
need a development tool access.
With Entra ID and Entra governance,
we can now leverage those access packages
to predefine the access that a specific
department requires and then let the user
request access to those packages.
Via an approval process.
So if we look at it,
most breaches start with forgotten access.
So we need to now be able to control.
What do we do with access that has been
forgotten? User left the organization.
IT forgot to do cleanup.
So that is where ID governance fixes by
automating,
provisioning and forcing reviews.
We have HR triggers review and confirm if
the user is still there.
One of the biggest risk organizations is
still facing today.
It's just simply objects that have got
access to.
Environments,
but the user is no longer there or the
user has been moved to a different
department,
but that user still has access to either
a development system or a critical
business system with access rights into
it.
So we need to be able to make sure that
we can control those permissions and
that's where access rights and identity
governance.
Solves those problems with automation.
As much as we can automate the access
reviews, the granting of accesses,
then we have more control of when users
are starting to shift different
departments or organization or user
leaves the.
Organization.
So we don't want to sit with the risk of
forgotten identities or forgotten access
in the environment.
One of the additional good is the
Microsoft Permission Management.
It's a proper SIM across three major
clouds.
The permission creep index is brilliant.
It will show you where you've got
permissions that is either too high or
there's a gap between.
How much permissions that this user has
been assigned to?
Do they actually leverage those
permissions?
Do they still require that permissions?
So it's quite a brilliant and intuitive
product.
It shows you exactly how much damage each
identity could cause.
Across unused across the clouds based on
unused permissions.
So if you've got user X setting with
let's say global admin permissions,
but that same user has the same
equivalent permission sitting on GCP but
they don't log in.
So permission management will then be
able to show you those critical gaps that
you have.
So we can reduce that user's permissions
or we take away it completely because the
user hasn't signed in for X number of
months or hasn't managed anything.
So we need to take control back into our
identities or permissions that we have
set.
So this is where Interoper Mission
Management really shines as a product
because it caters across or it covers
across Azure and AWS and GCP.
The challenges isn't granting access,
it's that we grant.
Too much access and that's where we rally
and we really need to start taking back.
It's the same as when we started with
M365,
everyone was in IT started having global
admin permissions and we started over.
Provisioning people with access that
didn't really need to have access.
So what was discovered,
it gives a complete visibility.
Permission management gives us a complete
visibility into who has access across
which cloud.
And it gives us the ability to help right
size the permissions automatically by
auto removing users.
After a set number of days, like 90 days,
we start remediating those permissions
and it gives us the ability to monitor.
It continuously watches for anomalies
leveraging the machine.
Machine learning capabilities in it
detect if there's over privileged
identities because before they become a
breach, the insight is eye opening.
Most organizations find they can safely
remove up to 80% of permissions without
breaking anything,
and that is purely because we assume.
That our service account needs to be
global admin.
Our service account needs to be Exchange
admin,
where in fact a service account is pretty
much just happy with having read only
permissions and that's it.
And that is why we need to have a look at
permission management.
The tools that forms part of the
intrasuite and leveraging those
caabilities.
Then as we continue on on the good,
so we look at zero trust in action.
So we all have heard what zero trust is
trust, trust, no one verify everything.
So this is if we look at zero trust trust
in action,
this is where everything comes together.
Together zero trust in motion in
Microsoft Entra we start looking at
conditional access policies,
the brain behind policy enforcement.
It makes decisions dynamically based on
factors like what is the user's risk?
Where is the location the user is coming
from? What is the device health?
So conditional access is one of the great
features of Inter that keeps evolving.
We continuously see features being
involved like the sign in sign in factors
where users are signing from so we can.
Set quite strict controls based on what
is required in the environment.
Then we're looking at Progress Identity
Management, or PIM for short.
This limits exposure by giving admins
just the right access.
At the time that they required nothing
longer, nothing less.
So with EM we can control global admins
to only have access for four hours to
erform the function that they need to
erform. With that we include.
We'll include a completional controls
before the user gets elevated to a global
admin or specific admin role that they
have to get approval from line manager.
So get a e-mail notification.
Line manager proves so and so needs
access to global admin role.
Elevate the user and the user starts
getting gets added to the role based role
based group to perform at their function
and then we look at last but not least we
look at the defender signals feed real
time intelligence into Entra.
If defender detects risky activity,
conditional access response instantly,
forcing MLO or even block access.
So when we look at those defender signals,
we will see signals like.
User signing in from abnormal sign in
identified where user is coming from sign
in detected out of South Africa but the
users based in South Africa Defender
signals will will pick those up.
Enter ID will flag those.
As abnormal traveling or signing activity
being detected.
So with even with those few controls put
in place,
we already we can already see major
differences in in identity security by
just making small changes in the
environment.
Together these these create loving,
breathing zero trust systems,
one that continuously verifies every
logging, every session,
and every privilege.
It's not about trusting ones,
it's about verifying always.
Then we look at the bad in enterprise
complexity.
So one of the the ones that is a real
challenge is if we look at from a bad
point of view is Microsoft always has
this carrot dangled in front of us of.
What is, what is possible in Entra?
What is the nice to haves,
what you can can do,
what you can block and what enhancements
you can do.
But then we come to the licensing part
and we start seeing the complexities
across the P1P2,
the skews that's been broken up between
governance and then the same tiers.
It just becomes a nightmare for IT
departments to start and manage what
works for me, where do I,
what SKUs do I add and what SKUs don't I
add.
And then we also have the challenge of
the portal fragmentation where we see
admins have to navigate between the Azure
portal,
the Entra portal and the Defender portal.
So we need to start doing investigations,
compromised user account or.
We need to make settings changes,
then we get redirected to a defender
portal or Entra redirects us to a portal
in Azure for related to PUM that we need
to configure.
So there is these little fragmentations
that we need to be aware of or that can
become a.
A daily frustration,
depending on how often we live and
breathe in that portal,
and then visibility becomes a bit of a
challenge if we need to,
because the portal,
the information that we always see within
the portal might not necessarily be.
All of the information.
So that's where we start relying on
reporting tools like Microsoft Graph API.
Now we need to start harnessing and
updating our skills related to Microsoft
Graph scripting.
How do we use Graph API and then script
the information that I require?
Require pull out that necessary
information.
So then those are the part of the
complexities that we have to realize is
the real world.
Not all departments or organizations will
have the budget to say I'll purchase this
tool out-of-the-box.
It can give me this report or it can do
that.
We have to be mindful of the departmental
financial challenges and constraints that
we are facing.
Hence the Microsoft Graph API and how we
can query the results that we pick up
from it. It's amazing.
We just need to think what it is.
That I want to see and then use the Graph
API to try and pull out that information
that's not natively visible into the
portal.
So one scenario I can think of we in
order for you to have longer.
Logs in of intro logs.
So by natively that we see 90 days worth
of logs.
So if you have not incorporated Microsoft
Sentinel and shipped off those logs to a
Sentinel workspace,
you need to find other mechanisms of
pulling out those logs,
storing it somewhere for your own use or.
Do a regular month end report extracting
that information.
The graph becomes your perfect tool of
choice to perform that kind of functions
and just saving those information
somewhere.
And for enterprises managing multiple
tenants,
there's a real operational overhead
coordinating different policies.
Reviews identity governance across
environments.
That doesn't become easy because now I
need to control what access packages
we've configured for tenant A,
what is happening in tenant B, so keeping.
Keeping all of that In Sync does become a
challenge and as we look on later on.
How do we what?
What ways can we put in place to manage
the these multi tenant organizations?
The key is to centralize and streamline,
consolidate logging into Sentinel,
define clear admin workflows and invest
in graph automation.
So Microsoft still pushes us with all the
greatness and the.
And the beautiful things that we see in
Entra,
a lot of the information we still pull
out and we still use the Graph API on an
almost daily basis to surface the
information that we really want to see.
So while Intra provides incredible
capabilities,
it still requires careful design and
governance to keep things manageable.
So adding more tenants because we want to.
Separate a business unit or we we want to
add another business,
but it's going to be there for six months
only and then we need to tear it apart.
So those are where we have to carefully
design different type of scenarios.
The organization goes through because
managing all of this does become a bit of
a challenge.
And then the ugly that we have to look at
and and talk about is service principles.
So often we get a vendor requesting, look,
just spin up a service principle,
give it owner rights for now,
we'll get back to it.
But the problem with that is that those
service principles sometimes have more
access than what the administrator
accounts have.
So we forget about them totally because
they're running at the back.
Service principles are configured with
never expired secrets.
So they are a.
They are a compromise entity waiting to
happen if they are that aggressively
assigned permissions and secrets that
doesn't rotate or that doesn't expire.
And then we've got legacy authentication
which bypasses conditional access
policies.
It still hangs around through old
exchange.
Connectors,
SMTP relays and the Power BI connector.
All of these bypass conditional access
and MFA,
making them an easy entry point for
attackers to get into.
And then we've got the audit blind spot.
Another concern,
workload identities often don't show up
properly in sign in logs,
meaning you could have activity happening
without visibility or alerts,
so we need to be careful with.
What we have and that is where if we look
at the ordered blind spots,
that's where we have our day-to-day of
Microsoft Graph API comes into place. OK,
what application do we have that is?
What workload do we have that is
configured for in intra ID as a signing?
Do we have those logs? Nope,
we don't have them.
OK, how can we get those logs?
Let's use Graph API.
Let's pull out those logging information
to see what is happening.
Or just make it a conscious habit to say
we need to start reviewing the
applications that we've got integrated
into Entra ID.
And start going through those logs and
the alerts that being or the failed
logins that's been triggered within Intra
ID for those specific applications.
And then finally we're looking at
privileged access workstations.
Or the lack of them.
Too often we've got we still have admins
performing domain admin,
enterprise admin level functions from
their laptop where they are the local
admin on their laptop.
Organizations is not having the
conversation enough about privilege
access workstations.
Why do we need to have that privilege
access workstation?
Why does the workstation needs to be
isolated and separated and only perform
certain functions from that laptop if I'm
a global admin?
I shouldn't be able to just go into a
coffee shop.
I take my laptop and I access the my
organization's environment.
That's a that's a major security risk.
So what happens if someone managed to
steal my laptop and there is keys and
stuff stored on onto my laptop or access
tokens? So those are.
Critical things that organizations are
not having enough conversations about,
which should be talked about more and
should be implemented.
So these are the gaps that attackers can
exploit.
But the good news is they're all flexible
through strong governance,
monitoring and proper lifestyle
management.
So if we're looking at our Privileged
Access workstation, yes,
we've got a workstations,
we've got the CIS package deployed to a
AVD machine or Windows 365 machine locked
down completely with CIS controls,
and only from that machine I'm allowed to
use conditional access to access the.
M365 or the Azure portals to perform my
admin functions.
So those are the type of scenarios or the
thinking that organizations should start
having to make sure that they safeguard
the most critical assets,
which is data that they have that they've
built up.
The access to the critical systems,
finance and the SEP systems so.
Yeah,
so the ugly of the is real world pitfalls
that can damage an organization pretty
quickly.
And then we look at designing for control.
So one of the one of the things that we
look at is.
I think we all are fairly familiar with
the tiered admin model based on when
Active Directory started rolling out.
All organizations start having AD and
then we had this tiering model, Tier 0,
tier one accounts.
And those are the same thinking that we
should start applying in intra ID.
Let's not take it away.
How do we incorporate that some type of
tearing structure into our environment at
the moment?
Because we need to say not everyone
should be able to see to have access to
tear.
Tier 0 role based groups that should be
strictly locked away with with privileged
identity management hidden behind an
access package where only certain people
in the organization can approve access to
that.
Then we're looking at DevOps integration.
How do we make sure that the changes we
apply in our organization?
Has is approved changes the code that we
are kicking off against our environment
that we are not executing malicious code
because we cloned A GitHub repo from the
Internet and it says you can automate
your environment,
just clone this GitHub repo.
So by integrating that in that.
Security checks with Defender for
Defender for Cloud scanning the code that
is being being pushed inside our
environment via Azure DevOps.
We get to scan those codes.
Defender for for Cloud be able to give us
and tell us look,
this code is got secrets in it.
Are you sure you want to publish it or
you block that code from being published
because you're sharing a secret over
plain text that should be hidden either
in a key vault and then reference the key
vault and then do the deployment.
So those DevOps integration is becoming a.
Massive critical function of our of how
we move forward because we want to make
sure that we've got controls implemented
that is standardized.
Business has signed off and agreed on it.
We've got security checks.
Every time we push a new script,
we push a new deployment of a piece of
code.
It gets controlled.
It's validated by at least two members
for approval, so everyone.
So there's views on the code,
not just Defender for Cloud saying
where's the security flaws in it,
but there's actual people validating what
we are deploying into production into our
environment.
So and then we've got automated reviews
and reporting.
So we need to start automating our
reviews.
So if there is controls that we need to
pull out on a database,
if we look at intra ID,
the reports that we are getting,
we get set up reports.
For risky users on a weekly basis,
send the e-mail notification,
say these are the users that has been
found. Let's review them.
We organizations or InfoSec should start
taking ownership of those notifications
or those.
Those reportings that comes in and then
actively work through them to make
changes in the environment.
And then finally brilliant tool that I
think most all of us have seen,
which is the Meister tool.
So Meister with Azure DevOps allows us to
monitor control.
Drift and compliance in the real time.
So with DevOps integration and Maesto
running continuously, we can say OK,
conditional access policies have changed.
There is change that happened on our
global admin groups that has been
modified.
Our critical groups have been modified.
Like fire or for e-mail notification to
this department say why do we have drift?
But we need to start making conscious
decisions that we need to actively start
assessing our environment on a monthly or
regular basis so that we know what is
happening in our environment and if we
take ownership and control of it.
O.
On the next session,
I just want to quickly show you guys a
functionality in inter ID part of
conditional access that we all should use
quite actively and I hope everyone else
is also using it,
which is the what if function.
So I'm just going to quickly while I
switch screens,
do you have any questions yet?
Yep.
OK.
No one's coming of meat,
so I'm going to assume there's no
questions.
I'll ask questions later. Too many.
Good.
Actually,
if if we were on in the same room,
we would,
we would just stop the bus and ask
questions.
So you're welcome to ask questions, Skulk.
So my question is more related to to um
Microsoft Intra external ID, so.
And using it together with Entra.
So there's a scenario that I'm thinking
about that I needed for a client where
we're building applications that's going
to be available external to your
organization.
So hence the use of Microsoft intro
external ID.
Mm.
But those applications will need to allow
people within the organization also to
authenticate on them.
So would one use the entitlements and
stuff like that in the main tenant to
sort of keep them In Sync or?
I don't know if it entitlements really
fit in with external ID or or is more
specific to.
I see Matthew swooping in on that one.
So Shaun, if you want to,
Yeah.
you can hand the one over.
Yeah, Matthew, you can go.
Thanks, Nick. It's sorry, Shaun.
It's so in that scenario, Skulk,
you're going to have two separate tenants.
You're going to have a workforce tenant
and an external ID tenant where the app
is published.
And they're they're they might be
associated with the same company,
but they're separate tenants.
So your workforce identities, you know,
bob@contoso.
com is gonna need to be granted access to
the applications in.
Uh, you know, whatever app. Um.
Woodgrovewoodgrovebank.
com external ID tenant as a guest.
So you'd have to add that identity as a
guest and there's ways you can do that
through cross tenant sync so you can do
synchronize identities from the workforce.
Tenant into the external ID tenant so
that they can then be granted access or
you just let them sign up and sign in
like the users of Woodgrove Bank would do
anyway and grant them access.
Does that answer your question, Skog?
So I mean, so yes,
you have your main tenants.
Are you gonna have another one which is
your workforce tenant or is that part of
Hmm.
your main tenant?
Sorry, Scout,
something that Matthew didn't mention is
Mm.
that B to C is also depreciated in favour
of another mechanism.
Yeah, yeah, I know. I know that one.
Hmm.
It's called you and I have. We've spoken.
We before we spoke about some of the
Um.
customization that wasn't there in the
the external ID stuff.
Yeah.
Mm.
So this scenario is a bit different to
the previous one.
I actually asked about that.
I think I owe you a.
So there's there's a third scenario which
is for customers. OK,
so this scenario is like there's branches
or whatever that might need access as
well to these applications.
Scott,
just for the the sake of the where where
So I need to be able to sign in.
Shaun is in his current flow,
I'm going to ask if if we just to respect
Mm.
where where Shaun is,
if we're not on on the the current
Sure, mhm, yeah.
feature,
let's take this one to the end of the
session from a Q&
A point of view and then we'll pick it up
gladly.
Cool.
So happy.
Good. So one of the.
Great features of conditional access
policy of how we restrict access into our
environment or intra ID.
So I've just created two basic
conditional access policies.
One of them is restricting access.
To everyone else apart from a location
that I have defined and that is South
Africa as a as a country,
everything else we have blocked access so
now.
And the second one is just risk based
sign in. So we define conditions,
sign in risk.
Any user with medium or high end risk
will be prompted for MFA sign in.
So note that this is an empty.
Empty tenant and no other policies
configured, but what I wanted to show was.
Shaun,
could you could you maybe zoom in a bit?
Yeah, yeah.
It's small for me and I'm sure it's small
for others too.
Hang up. How's that better?
And you still have young eyes.
Yeah.
OK,
so we're going to use the what if
function.
So every time that we deploy a new
conditional access policy in the
environment,
we always have the risk of what if.
If I deploy this policy,
am I going to break access to my
application?
Am I going to prevent my users from
signing into specific applications?
So that way we can define and test
workload identities.
We can check guest and external users.
Test what the flow or the experience will
be for those users.
O if I just select a user,
I'm going to use a demo user.
And I'm going to select the the target
type.
What are we going to authenticate again
or what are we going to test?
I'm going to test the cloud app.
I'm going to select the cloud app which
is visible within the MTRA within
conditional access. So we're going to say.
M365.
And then here we can start defining the
specific countries where we want to come
from.
So I'm going to say let's do a test flow.
Let's validate if we are allowing people
from Brazil.
And I should have an IP for Brazil.
Sorry about that.
So because I set the policy.
The changes that I've made in the policy,
so location state which is on and I've
not configured anything for it.
We can see that the reason the policy
will not apply is because of the location,
which is interesting because they're
coming from Brazil.
So this is how we can validate what our
policy will do.
If we look at the policies that will
apply,
all the policies that will apply will be
listed here and we can exactly see what
the impact on the user will be.
So will the user receive MFA?
Will the user be blocked out or locked
out from the tenant?
If so,
this policy will show you here what the
configuration is.
Then we can also continuously filter with
what you want to do.
What is the authentication flow going to
be?
So the what if tool has grown so much
that Microsoft started adding.
Adding.
Adding all the additional conditions,
sign in conditions.
Previously we could just specify the
application,
your source IP address or the country
that you're coming from and it will tell
you which policies will apply and what
will not apply.
Now we have a sign in risk.
We can define the risk level that we are
signing in from.
User risk level, what does that look like?
And we can specify more and more type of
platforms where we are logging in from to
start understanding what conditional
access policy will do.
How would it have an effect on our end
users at the end of the day?
Then we one of the things I want to
showcase is sign in events.
So we in order for us to do start with
troubleshooting within intra of why
specific users are not able to sign in.
Or why is the conditional access blocking
them? What is what specific control?
So yeah,
we've got a user that has got an
interrupted session.
So if we look at this and we expand,
then we can see the user's password is
expired and therefore the login or
session was ended.
So now we can with enter a sign in logs.
Now we've got all of this information
that's readily available to us that we
can start understanding what is happening
with our user sign insurance.
What will the effect be of certain
policies if we are rolling it out?
Is there any conditional policies that's
been applied?
To the users.
So here we can see conditional access
policy applied for unrestricted countries.
Success policy not applied for risky sign
insurance for the risk score.
And then we can look at additional
information.
Was the user prompted for MFA?
Was that completed?
MFA was completed within Azure AD.
So we have all this information that
becomes.
More and more available,
the more Microsoft enhance the the
product and the functionality.
Hey.
And then I'm going to just quickly switch
back. Almost time to Q&A.
So.
Just to wrap up the quick quick demo,
I didn't want to steal too much time,
too much of everyone's time,
but it's to utilize design with
visibility.
That's where the what if tool comes in
when we design the security measures
around our environment,
how we allow access into our environment.
We need to leverage tools like the what
if tool to simulate what the policy
effects going to be.
We need to use runtime protection to
implement the risk based policies,
the user risk, the sign in risk.
Do they have any risk applied to them?
What do we apply if user?
Is medium. Do we just request MFA?
Do we sign the lock the account and get
them to contact help desk?
What is that flow and what does our
organization require us to do in those
type of scenarios?
So we need to always make sure that when
we design.
In our intra ID solution or the intra ID
environment that we take these type of
measures into account because a lot of
the time we just go to conditional access
policy and you're like you know there's a
template, click, click, click.
Not sure if that template is fit for
purpose or fit for the organization,
we just go ahead and apply.
But we should apply some thinking process
as to why specific conditional access
policies have been implemented and what
the consequence of that policy will be if
we implement it in a certain way.
Then as we as we wrap up,
just to build your identity playbook,
conduct tenant audits.
So the Meister tool brilliant on allowing
us to do regular assessments with the use
of a DevOps integration perform.
Monthly or quarterly assessments across
the tenant,
see what the the control drift was like
from the from the quarter before,
what is our changes in in our admin roles
etcetera. So we need to be able to.
To audit our own environment instead of
waiting for third parties to do that for
us at a hefty fee.
And then we need to transition our admin
roles to a PIM solution or PIM equivalent
Private Identity Management equivalent
type of solution.
To make sure that we have control over
critical roles that not everyone can just
jump on and leverage that that critical
roles,
then we need to automate tedious task
users being new users joining the
environment, users moving departments.
What is required?
I am moving now from IT and I'm moving
into HR, new set of groups,
new set of access that I require into
applications and that is where we have
workflows, automations that kicks in.
HR changes me in the SAP system to from
IT to HR based on that job.
Or the department change my access on my
user identity starts changing because now
I am in a completely different department.
So we need to automate those things.
It's not. These are not.
Functionality that is of the future.
Those are functionalities that we can
leverage right now and we should be able
to use them if we especially if we're
sitting with the licenses,
we can automate joiner, mover,
lever with logic apps those.
So we don't have excuses why we shouldn't
be able to do it.
If we've got an Azure environment,
Azure subscription,
we can create logic apps and we start
automating some of those basic functions
to make sure that every approach still
stays the same and we don't rely on
helpdesk to do those things for us.
And then we need to monitor service
principles in Sentinel.
One of the things that many organizations
forget to do.
I start a new application or I'm building
an application,
but I need a service principle.
So I'm going to start off with the
highest permissions.
Instead of starting with least privilege,
I'm starting the highest because I don't
want to struggle.
So I'm going to give it all the
ermissions it needs.
We need to set U monitoring alerts within
Sentinel for those service principles so
that we can get alerted if anything
happens to those service principles.
Are signins being conducted from?
From different countries where we don't
operate,
why is that service principle allowing a
sign in connection?
With Sentinel we can monitor those type
of events and then act upon them and then
regularly test conditional access
policies.
Use the what if tool we dive into.
The different policies, OK,
I'm a user coming in from so and so
country. What will apply?
What will happen to me if I leverage this,
if this conditional access policy gets
rolled out?
So we need to be able to make sure that
what we rolled out, that we've tested it,
we've validated it before we start
putting it.
Into production.
And then some takeaways the good intra
the.
Provides us a unified identity and access
governance, access governance, delivery,
comprehensive zero trust capabilities in
our environment. One of the bad licensing,
it's starting to feel like Microsoft's
one of the best things that they ever
invent is how to.
Make licensing complicated for things
that we do need to make enhancements into
our environment and then the ugly.
We've got uncontrolled configuration
drift. How can we manage that?
We can leverage tools like Meister or put
it in place with.
With a DevOps process,
monitor what our service principles look
like with Microsoft Sentinel,
and then not just to have monitoring or
viewing or know that we've got a problem,
but we need to actually fix those
problems that we do have.
So as much as we organizations conduct
pen test, now I need to tick a box.
I'm going to do a pen test.
A pen test say I've got 50 issues,
but I'm going to pick the first two
because that's going to make the auditor
happy. So I'm going to do only those.
We should fix the issues that gets.
Picked up.
If there is configuration drift,
resolve the configuration drift.
If there's a conditional access policy
that is allowing or that's been
configured incorrectly and now it is a
set of users is excluded from MFA
policies.
That should be fixed and resolved and
either have a a separate controlled group
that is excluded,
but for known reasons or specific reasons.
So yeah,
those are some of the key takeaways.
Um.
Do we have any questions?
I know,
I know Matthew is probably eager to
feedback to.
Oh,
before you go for the the external ID
To Schalk.
like you mentioned that them is that
specific with just in time admin rights
is specific to intro when admin uses what
you're talking about. OK, cool.
Correct, correct, yes.
I mean like you mentioned the the
licenses, so like governance,
you need to separate governance licensing
for the lifecycle work flows and stuff it
seems. Oh edit.
You can achieve with by using logic apps
and integrate into whatever your HR
system is, right?
But if we're gonna want to use the
lifecycle management from Android itself,
there's a license attached to that.
Yes.
So we can if we've got.
E5 might be right,
but I'm going to lean to Matthew for that.
OK, OK.
But if we have a E5 license,
you can still have your access packages,
M.
your access reviews, review your your,
your critical groups that's associated to
PUM for global access. Set set up those.
Reviews,
access reviews on a weekly basis or
monthly to say Matthew and Shaun and Matt
is still part of this global admins.
Do they need to be in that group?
Yes or no?
That owner of the environment will then
reject or either approve.
So we need to start thinking of.
How we can automate a lot of those things
to safeguard ourselves going forward?
So that sort of ties in what I was
wanting to ask about the the additional
tenants.
If they if a user is linked in that
tenant,
it'll also sort of give a lifecycle
management in that tenant or is it?
I don't know,
that's what I'm trying to figure out.
Mm.
Environment in in Microsoft that you have
to manage,
but you do have the you can integrate
some of those accounts to synchronize or
be.
Specifically like the admin accounts,
I mean on the tenants. Yeah, yes, yes,
That you can synchronize between the two
environments,
Hmm. Yeah.
Yeah.
but you don't want to do that for
everyone because then you're going to sit
yeah.
So.
with junk that you don't want in your
tenants.
No, exactly.
Hmm.
U.
So you have to be careful with that type
of design.
By default,
the person that creates the external ID
Oh.
Yeah.
tenant that was started off in the the
workforce tenant becomes the
But.
administrator of the external ID tenant
by default and then you can add
Yes, yes.
Yeah.
additional.
Admins. So there is that kind of link,
but there's also cross-tenant sync
Oh.
capabilities where you can, you know,
create users in both.
Yes, yes, yes.
Mm.
Um.
It gets a bit tricky with XMID.
So I think it's like federated,
Yeah.
Oh.
but it's not federated. So like,
I mean you can also do federated identity
then, which is not quite the same I think.
Yeah, yeah.
Just with regards to the licensing the
the,
Um.
so the PIM stuff that you asked about,
you can do PIM stuff on an external IDE
tenant,
but you have to purchase into a premium
P2 for that tenant.
So you can buy the premium P2 capability.
Yes, OK.
And then licensing changed completely.
Is.
Yeah,
so the the whole point of external ID is
Mhm.
it's the same code base as external ID as
intro ID. So yeah,
And.
so you can do a lot of the stuff that you
can do in intro already.
That's intro, yeah.
On external ID.
Yeah.
Oh.
And then you also, sorry Shaun,
you you didn't mention entitlements.
I don't know if you actually work with or
if you've done anything with entitlements.
I I I skipped entitlements for a reason
because it becomes a big topic on its own
I don't actually know, you know.
Hmm.
and especially when you start configuring
entitlements and within entitlements you
OK.
can have a a a form of.
External identities in your entitlement,
but I would I would think for your
scenario we would have to kind of
whiteboard exactly what it is that you
want to achieve to see which
functionality fits and tick that box off.
Yes.
Yeah, see, I'm not an expert in this area,
so I'm asking these questions because
Hmm.
No,
but it seems like a fun project you're
your questions are sort of it's floating
me. Yeah, yeah,
working on.
I would like to have an expert in the
knows this stuff.
Um, secret rotation?
Is it any recommendation that you have
for like um?
Secret.
How to manage the like dependence on that?
Or is it a way to find what apps or
something that uses a secret?
So remember that secrets are basically
like a password and that when the secret
Yeah, like.
expires effectively you've got an expired
non valid password on that and there
actually is both intra as well as graph
instrumentation for that.
So in intra in the app blade you can see
that.
Password is expired,
but the most scalable method of doing
that,
and I'm going to suggest to you since you
know how to code,
is to either use PowerShell or the
language of your choice to interrogate
graph for all the apps in your tenant,
then dum all the.
The dates for your secrets and then
you'll see which which is expired and
unexpired. And to be yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah.
What do you event? Wait for the event.
So and I think Matt's actually got a term
for that,
which is when something crashes into you.
Yeah.
What?
Crash management,
you know if you if you wait for the user
to tell you that it's broken.
Oh, oh, scream. Scream theory. Screen.
Not the screen theory. Yeah, that one.
I can't remember.
You wait for the user to scream,
Yeah, yeah.
basically.
Yeah,
Rhino's got his hand up and then we need
Sure.
to to end the call.
So let's just give Rhino to a the the
talking stick.
And he left. All right.
I I do want to respect everybody's time.
I'm sorry, folks, that we are out of time.
However, thank you so much for joining.
It's lovely to to get the interactivity
that we have.
Thank you everyone for asking the
questions that you did. Shaun,
you did a magnificent job taking
something that's so broad.
And so complicated in making it so
accessible. So thank you very much.
Pleasure. Thanks everyone.
And with that, have a wonderful day. Oh,
Rinot, if you're there,
Have a good afternoon. Oh.
do you want to ask the question quick?
Mm.
Struggling with the mute button,
I arrogant.
Yes, it is. It's all right.
We'll give you a moment to try that.
If you maybe want to put into text if
it's if it's not too long to put into
text.
Oh, there we go.
I wanted to ask if anyone has been able
to authenticate other Microsoft tenants
through external ID and I'm going to ask
for a quick yes or no from you Shaun,
just because of the the amount of time
that we have.
Uh, no, but.
Or if you like,
you could also continue the chat via I am
and then that way we can end the call for
everybody else.
I I haven't, but interesting one and.
But I suppose you can. It's possible,
so it's not not impossible through
external ID.
You can just federate,
allow certain users to access your tenant
file, not external. Yeah,
synchronized identities. Use that. Yeah,
there's option.
There's options to achieve that rate end.
That was a bad question. Good question.
Shaun,
are you happy for folks to reach out to
you via via LinkedIn?
Your your your details are on the meetup
Yes, perfectly fine.
Happy to chat if anyone has got questions.
site.
All right.
So I'm going to direct everyone to do
that just for the sake of time.
So I'm going to end the call and Shaun is
very.
Happy to be contacted on this,
so thank you again Shaun. Cheers all.